In terms of answering quantitative
or even finance related questions, here's a couple
of different frameworks you can use.
This is gonna be very finance heavy.
If you don't care about finance
or accounting related questions, you can just skip this,
but this might really apply for banking
or people that work in the finance industry
or even for CEOs or strategy consultants.
Again, if this matters to you, if you care about M and A,
mergers, acquisition, et cetera, keep watching this section.
Otherwise, just skip ahead, please.
Thank you.
The first one we're gonna discuss is M and A
or mergers and acquisitions.
This is a Q and A crutch you can use.
In this case, company X is considering
acquiring company Y and somebody in the audience
asks you, "how would you analyze this scenario?"
Or "what do you think?"
You start off by saying this.
Is company Y a competitor in a different market
or in the same market?
And then what you can do is you can then drill down
per this graphic here, I'm not gonna go into too much detail
on it.
You can read through this and apply this if you want to.
You can see that the crutch is there.
Let's use the first crutch.
If the audience member asks you a question
and says it's a competitor, first of all,
you talk about expense synergy scenarios.
You discuss synergistic headcount expense cuts
in G and A, S and M, or R and D and you keep drilling down
until you get to an EPS accretion.
If an audience question pertains to a similar market,
then use the other crutch, here, which is
the revenue synergies scenario.
Then you just discuss how company X can use
its existing distribution channels to sell
company Y's products.
You keep drilling down until you get
to an EPS accretion number.
Keep it very high level.
Let's move on to buy versus build.
The question could be as follows.
Company X is considering entering a market by buying
or building.
How would you advise?
You can then ask, if you wanted to, "what is a TAM
"as a percent of the market to capture?
"What's the cost to build?
"What's the cost to buy?"
Or you can discuss your thoughts on those items
if you want to.
This is very finance heavy.
You can look at the building crutch.
Is building cost effective?
And you can drill down and discuss, do you have
the talent to build?
How many years would it take to be a credible competitor
by building the product yourself?
Is this really the best use of your capital?
What happens if building this product fails?
How much is it gonna cost to finance building this product?
What's the impact in the short term and long term
earnings per share or EPS?
And then you can look at the buying crutch.
Is buying cost effective?
Is it urgent that we get to market faster?
What happens if the deal doesn't work out?
Are there integration issues or breakup penalties?
What's the impact on short or long term earnings?
That sort of thing.
Let's talk about another crutch question.
Company X is considering an IPO.
How would you advise?
You can discuss, well it depends.
What valuation?
And you can look at the go versus not go crutch.
Let's talk about go first.
Go, we selected go here.
The competition's P/E, PEG, and price to ratio
and other multiples are more expensive.
The IPO market is robust.
If recent companies in the same sector had successful IPOs.
That's the go scenario.
Then we look at the no go crutch.
No go if the competition's valuation is cheaper
with similar growth.
The IPO market is awful.
If recent companies in the same sector had terrible IPOs
as well, and the market's in a tailspin.
That sort of thing.
Let's move on to Q and A crutch question number four
which is explain how to build a financial model
from scratch.
This is very finance heavy, so again, if you're not
in a finance oriented situation, you can just skip
the rest of this.
I wanted to be thorough.
Explain how to build a financial model from scratch.
We need to know, is this a public or a private company?
If it's a public company, here's a public company crutch.
Get model data at sec.gov for the past 10 years
using 10-Ks or the S-1 if it's a recent IPO.
Also talk to I.R. which is investor relations.
Then create the income statement, the balance sheet,
the cash flow statement.
Then you analyze past trends and forecast
the next five fiscal years and if possible,
after you've done your research, speak with the CFO.
If it's a private company, you can find out
what the TAM is, which is the total adjustable market.
And if you can't find out what the size of the market
is online from looking at reports from consulting firms
like McKinsey or Gartner or Forest or et cetera,
then what you do is you add up the revenue
from the top 25 firms in that sector.
Then you decide what percent of the TAM
the company will likely have in 10 years.
And then you project sales and make most income statement
elements a percentage of revenue, et cetera.
Q and A crutch question number five.
Company X is going public.
You have to create a model.
Explain how DCF works and relative valuation metrics
like price/earnings and price to revenue.
This is a lot.
Let's look at the DCF crutch first.
You're gonna project your income statement,
balance sheet, your cash flow statement for 10 years.
You're gonna calculate free cash flow
which is basically EBITDA minus capex.
And then you're gonna calculate WACC, W-A-C-C,
meaning, what's the cost of debt and equity.
And then you also gotta know what the risk free rate is,
the market return, the beta, et cetera.
And then we'll discount that 10 year free cash flow
and a terminal value as well.
Let's move on.
The P to R crutch, price to revenue crutch.
You forecast the income statement for five years.
You look at revenue in year five.
Then you apply the appropriate sector revenue multiple.
Make sure you look at the revenue growth rate
for the comps, too, comparisons.
Then you apple the appropriate price to revenue multiple
in five years.
This is not a finance course, that's why I'm going
through this quickly.
Lastly, the price to earnings crutch.
You forecast the income statement for five years.
You look at non-GAAP EPS in year five,
meaning pro-forma EPS in year five.
Then you apply the appropriate sector EPS multiple.
And make sure to use the EPS growth rate
that the comps have, too.
Then you apply the multiple to your earnings per share
in year five.